---
layout: post
title:  "Mechanical Software"
categories: intro
---

# Or, how we will all end up writing or using Software and other truisms
It is only a mild exageration that most engineers either already deal with some kind of software for the majority of their workday, or end up writing software as their workday.

When I joined Mechanical Engineering a bit over a decade ago, I wanted to do Mechanical Design. This meant that I wanted to spend time in CAD (Computer  Aided Design) or CAM (Computer Aided Manufacturing) software doing what I imagined were "normal Mechanical Engineering tasks". Designing parts, doing Finite Element Analysis. I imagined having parts machined, testing out my designs and have my parts break catastrophically because I had forgotten friction.

After having some internships and part time work in various industries, I realized I did not quite like that kind of work. Through chance I met someone working in the Test and Measurement industry and ended up working for that same company.

Through the years I met hundreds of engineers that were doing "normal Mechanical Engineering things". They worked on manufacturing lines or laboratories and needed to instrument and measure something. They needed to put sensors onto stuff to tell them what their stuff did, whether their processes were breaking their stuff, or how to make their stuff faster than the competition made their own stuff.

All of these tasks ended up benefitting from some kind of automated measurement or control system because it is generally more effective to stick a Thermocouple onto a device and write software to take in values than it is to have someone walk up to a machine every few hours and measure its temperature. This goes double for when you would need to have someone take a measurement some ten thousand times a second because most people cannot write that fast.

And so software is added into test and measurement. And into virtually every other task an engineer does.

Not every engineer has to make their own Software tools every day - they can often have consultants write them. Still, virtually every engineer will see their tasks depend more and more on software which is a thought that you can read virtually anywhere because I am not original.

# OK - are you done telling me platitudes?
Not really. But what i have realized through years of writing Software is that I have learnt too many things ad-hoc. While my education included quite a few software classes, I could definitely have paid more attention (or skipped less).

Through these years I have learnt and taught how to program, how to design software frameworks and architectures, how to write algorithms for Machine Vision and Motion Control. But I feel my fundamentals to be lacking sometimes, so this is my attempt to fixing that.

-SRPSM
